---
layout: post
title: "Week 11: Open source business models"
---

### Turn Open source for-profiting

This week's class discussion got me focused the most so far in the semester because it involved dibs. The class transitioned from free, in terms of coins, to revenue and talked about business models that open-source projects can leverage to enable cash to flow on their projects.

<!--more-->

Topics about making a money grab my attention all the time; thus this writing will introduce business strategies that open-source projects utilize to generate their spending change. First to bring up is, of course, Red Hat, a paragon of open-source projects in my opinion, because it is living proof of profitable open-source software. Red Hat monetizes in various ways through a technique called "Support and services". It charges enterprise users for receiving its technical support services, using "premium" distribution, and certifying participants verifying their ability in using its software. If you manage a sizable software that is widely used in industries across, charging customers for help resolving their concerns, even though answers are all on the FAQ page, is one option to get yourself a coffee.

The second tactic is known as Advertisement partnership, which is a type of commercial advertisement deal made between hosting and invited corporates. A sponsoring software company may charge potential companies wanting to hang their products on the main page of the software company for listing their advertisements, link, whitelist, etc. Confident about luring millions of users, then this plan is an option to turn software into a cash cow.

### Project reflection

This week marks a major turning point for the group. After investing several days to set up development environments for the originally considered project Appsmith, the group arbitrated the obstacles, related to the installation that prohibited further progress in making the first contribution, to deflect focus onto a different project. The harsh situation is primarily due to failure in pre-testing the development environment before claiming an issue to contribute. The group is now working on an open-source project, One army, and has already been assigned an issue to revise. Fortunately, the development environment setup wasn't as painful as last time, so the team is actively working to fix the issue and make the first team PR to the project only hoping for a thumbs up with minor errors in the proposed solution.
