---
layout: post
title: "Week 4: Group-made brower extension"
---

### The first ever group-made browser extension

-   This week the class organized a day for each group to take a turn and presented its self-made browser extension. Team breakout room 1, in which I and another team member were involved, trouted out an extension known as "BlockOFF" through which users can limit their access to certain websites to increase productivity. Amanda, the other member of the team, surfaced an idea about creating a domain access control for our team's add-on project, which we both agreed to in a brief time. With the base plan laid out, every stage from forming an open-source project repository to presentation smooth sailed by first attaching contribution guidelines, project's code of conduct, and summarized description of the extension with its functionalities. Henceforth, the group held a moderate amount of Zoom meetings to share thoughts in creating an underpinning code base that allows outside contributors to build upon for further enhancing the project. We were instructed to log progress concisely throughout the developement, which, personally thinking, the group inadequately satisfied mainly due to lack of awareness that seeks betterment when working on other projects.

<!--more-->

-   In the time of making the extension, Amanda handsomely came up with all the Javascript codes, which serve as the groundwork for the initial version of the extension, as I was a newcomer to the language. In cooperation with her efforts, I undertook the writing segments to bring the project an open-source by constructing and refining `README`, `Contribution`, and `Code of Conduct`; moreover constructing the slides for the presentation. Not to mention, the entire work was accomplished as a team in whole such that both the coding and writing sections are peer-revied with consensus.

-   There were some instructive lessons taught during the development of the extension. Regarding to the coding scheme, I was fascinated by the method Amanda deployed to redirect an off-limit website to a designated page when attempting to enter the site in the main executable file, `blockOff.js`. Overall, as the project was the first-ever extension creation to both of the group members and the first-ever materialization of an open-source project, the activity was extremely useful in learning the necessities for an open-source project and crafting an extension.

-   It was surprising to observe how other teams managed to vitalized their add-on and the preparedness displayed at their presentation. List of some of the prominent extensions such as "Less Ugly Brightspace", "Blinking Borders", "YouTubeEX", "searchionary" and many more, delivered successful utilization, which in a way trivialized my team's extension about its visual appearance and functional application. Though the exercise was a new experience to most of the class, all the groups astonishingly devised a working extension with profound creativity worthy of receiving stunning admiration.
