---
layout: post
title: "Week 6: Open Source with Transperancy"
---

### Is Radical transperancy the next tide?

This week the class arranged another round of guest speakers inviting Christopher Snider, a Clinic Manager of Tidepool, to inspire the class with insights into operating a non-profit public benevolent organization and rationales behind transparent open-source software (wait WAT? 😬).

<!--more-->

Tidepool is an open-source diabetes management software platform operating as a non-profit organization. The company was established with the core of increasing accessibility to their data for diabetic patients using continuous glucose monitoring device (CGM), which alerts their change in glucose level thereby taking insulin at the appropriate time. When questioned about the monetization model of Tidepool, Christopher said as a non-profit organization the company is currently accepting donations, which not only include the proceeds but also the data. Data is highly valuable to Tidepool because it supports more research that can enhance the overarching algorithm functioning Tidepool's software, controlIQ. In the digital world, the data comes with greater responsibility. Tidepool reckons the indispensable data privacy taking all the necessary security measures when accessing its data. Concerning data access and data residency, Christopher has been faced with lots of security questions and concerns in his past demos and often had to modify data storing contracts with certain countries depending on their social magnitude in data privacy concerns.

Tidepool is in favor of transparency and wider opened the door to its open-source software, which means details of codebases that prop up every product and service that the company offers to its users are available on its GitHub. Christopher mentioned that the transparency Tidepool adapted is very valuable when performing unit tests enabling a faster check and release process of a new version update. Surpassing the transparency of the project, Tidepool further reduces its opacity with a tactic of radical transparency. The aggressiveness lets anyone peep into all the documentation Tidepool has created and submitted stripping the company down to its skin.

In the short class time, Christopher put much effort to concisely but clearly explain Tidepool's open-source model along with the business strategies and model that the company is pursuing. He is savvy with in-depth knowledge of his subject, but his eminence restricted me a bit from following his sentences from beginning to end. Since he wanted to convey the full answers to brilliant questions raised during the session, a lot of his saying echoed as buzzwords losing track in capturing the meaning of remarks. I'm frustrated with not receiving all of Christopher's guru answers in response to questions such as operating a non-profit organization, layers of Tidepool software, enterprise solutions to resolve a budget challenge, and his enthusiasm in advancing the diabetes community before joining Tidepool.

### The role of Open efforts in community

My interpretation of open effort isn't significantly different from the foundation of open source, which is to bring like-minded people around the world to a project sparking more innovations and ideas to improve the project's functionality. In its similar sense, open effort cues the youth generation to find interest in programming by experimenting with the integration of semi-assembled open-sourced software that is publicly accessible to compatible hardware and watch the robot they made in action. This kind of experience lingers in the mind of youths who might, in the future, completely transform the people's way of living. Nevertheless, the efforts must be carried out in the right place at the right time. Without the infrastructure, such as having power outlets in a classroom, pro bono technology will be a misplacement, for example, giving away laptops to the classroom.
