---
layout: post
title: "Week 12: New wave of Open source is truly here"
---

### Open-source and For-profits are hand-in-hand

Retaining a software project internally in a firm's cozy haven is as far from the trend as unlocking your phone haptically. Companies and organizations are bringing their software out publicly allowing millions of completely anonymous users to download and inspect its core source code deep into the fundamental mechanism. Software that is exposed and globally used sounds vague, but they are simply computer programs, just like Spotify, designed for different needs, which may be out of your interest due to their specialty. Nonetheless, there are demands for those unique tools mostly from business consumers.

<!--more-->

All across the tech industry, companies are emphasizing the importance of delegating a cohort of employees to contribute to an open-source project, establishing an open-source department, and transitioning a part of their software to open-source with a public license. Not to mention, startups are also built on top of the initial open-source project that they began the community participation. Both, the developers/contributors and the end-users will continuously encounter common problems choking task list off, but with the power of many eyes, issues are no match. Instead of burdening the whole problem to a team of hard-working developers of a company, who are squeezing their heads trying to seek a silver lining, corporates' primary motive in open-sourcing their software is to solve problems that are ubiquitous, general, and redundant together with the help offered from gurus around the globe. Their business model is sustainable because monetization occurs from their dedicated services, which usually include unique features and capacity to their currently open-source project, which companies provide to their paid users.

Behind every open-source project, there is a covalent-bonded community steering the project forward; thus community matters. Members of an open-source community are not financially compensated for their work devoted to a project, their driving force comes from their passion, affection, and enthusiasm for improving the project. If all employees love their job, then their company's growth is endless. Such a goal-oriented mindset is the open-source communities, and they are the people with like-minded. Recruitment is common within an open-source community because employers actually view the works that a candidate has contributed to a project, and who obviously possesses the same interest in the project. Conceivably, the software is better built when they are taken care of by the people who actually use it. These end-users developing the software they use are the juiciest source of solutions since they are experiencing the product in their daily cycle.

Open-source software is free-in-charge, so it's a stupidity to purchase the entire product? When paying for open-source software that has its source code visible and downloadable to the public, the payment is not made to the product, but rather to the operational creed that which it's built. The creators of an open-source project started the project through the public domain license objective to create a software that serves as a bridge between previously non-affiliated industries, benefits the society in general across the sectors, or sparks an evolution, and that initial approach later solidifies as a mission of the software. The maintainers of software will never-endingly configure the software, regardless of its fall down from mainstream use, so that its remaining fan base is able to enjoy the software. Such perpetual support and repair services could be outcomes of the maintainer's genuine lust for its project.

### Project progress

This week, once switching the group's focus on One Army, the group figured out a solution to the problem that the team was assigned. Consequently, the team is finalizing to grasp the steps for making its first pull request to the project. Superficially, the writing format for pull requests seems natural using a common writing style with a detailed explanation if desired at the author's discretion; however, the testing part isn't going well as was expected. The group tried to run the software testing framework, `cypress`, which the project requires, but couldn't complete the full inspection due to the significant running time of testing. The team speculates that there is something the team miscomprehended that may require direct contact with people made in the discussion channel to seek help.
