---
layout: post
title: "Week 10: Group contribution week 02"
---

### Contribution to Appsmith

The second week of the open-source project contribution exercise went off with many collisions of issues including progress log update, environment setup, and issues to take on amassed to a size of meteorite outweighing small progress made. Here's the breakdown of the adventurous second week.

<!--more-->

During the course of the group work, every group is responsible for maintaining and updating the progress tracker, which lists out achievements and blockers a team faces, on the course WiKi. The weekly progress log helps the members of a group to understand the present status of their work for contribution, identify common obstacles hindering the momentum in progress, and perceive upcoming tasks to perform. With knowing all the essence of it, keeping the track record fastened was one duty that my group unsuccessfully realized. Aware of how cumbersome and tedious it is to write a document after a meeting or work completion, the group should be keen on the progress record to give more attention to the importance of documenting onward.

In an open field of GitHub abundant individual projects live with a list of modules, packages, and libraries required for a particular project independent of the other. In the case of `Appsmith`, two separate developer environments, client and server, are necessary to set up in order to work with the project's code. In contrast to the course instructor's suggestion, my group took the approach of first finding an issue to work on, then deciding which particular environment to configure depending on the nature of the issue. The rationale didn't go well from its first step as the group thought. Without a general insight of the structure of the project's repository and the tech stack used for the project, detecting a doable issue to tackle wasn't easy primarily due to a struggle to locate files that need a retouch. Thus, the group moved on to environment configuration instead as the class maintainer insisted, but the members have faced difficulties in setting up the environment as of now. The bottom line is to try and test out the environment demanded before jumping into code contribution.

On the positive side, however, the group was assigned an issue to resolve. As requested to claim one, the project maintainer responded in rapid time, granted, and assigned the group with an (issue)[https://github.com/appsmithorg/appsmith/issues/7511]. Though the issue is assigned under the username of one of the group members, the group will handle the issue together and make a pull request crediting all the group members.

Throughout the week, I got a chance to broaden my perspective on an open-source project. First of all, by navigating the issue board in search of an issue to take on, I've acquired a better fluency in filtering a list of issues utilizing GitHub's filtering options, and also familiarized myself with the level of intensity of issues labeled "Good First Issue". Basically, felt more comfortable skimming through the issue board and the files in the repository. Furthermore, I've noticed that a lot of issues with the label are assigned to a contributor but haven't been resolved for several months being left open. Surprisingly, requesting reassignment of an issue even if it's currently designated to an individual is not uncommon; therefore the group got the assignment through this method.
