---
layout: post
title: "Week 9: Tom Callaway of AWS"
---

### Business and Open Source

In this week of the Open Source Software Development course, the class hosted a guest speaker, Tom Callaway, principal open-source evangelist of AWS, with honor in the courtesy of the class instructor's network of professionals. Tom spent nearly 20 years of his career at Red Hat Software, one of the most renowned open-source software products distributors, then moved to AWS where he's currently helping to build open-source software for the company, Amazon. In conclusion, he knows about open-source a bunch.

<!--more-->

Red Hat was at its seed stage when Tom first joined the company. In all the years spent in Red Hat, Tom observed the success of the company, watched it grow, and was eventually acquired by IBM. As the company matures, Red Hat faced a similar challenge that other large-scale businesses encounter, "Where to go from here?". "Felt good because all the work put into growth paid off, but also terrifying" Tom said. Tom was prepared to shake up his routine and ready to apply his experiences to a different system; thus he began working for AWS to improve its societal stereotype in terms of open-source utilization. As one is highly interested in joining a startup at its early phase, the achievements and success of Tom and Red Hat are inspirational motivating every startup to dream big. Tom left a question in my mind to contemplate about the decision that I'd have to make when a startup becomes a firm by reaching its initial set of goals racking in positive profit, 'Should I continue progressing with the company, transition to a different workplace, or initiate my own?'.

Good developers know beyond the world of technology by broadening their scope of perspective through rigorous overhauling of adjoining sectors centered around the core business model. Tom was not only a developer of Red Hat but also a legal advisor of Fedora counseling legal issues that the company ran across. Since Red Hat was at its beginning with a small number of employees when Tom was involved, he was destined to put on various hats and juggle his role accordingly. Tom was fascinated to learn about the legal license aspects that make open-source possible and desired to understand the concepts behind the working mechanism such as the legal foundations that facilitate the plausibility of open-source. With this knowledge, Tom was able to address legal obstacles that open-source communities, in which he was a part, were faced with where he found pleasure in serving as a translator of the law world and tech world. Possessing wide viewpoints is arduous and painful demanding costly time to study the subjects, which not all of us can achieve. If one is to join a startup and grow with the startup, one must be ready to take on several roles other than the primary duty i.e a developer must also serve as a sales representative in whatever situation. Tom's dedication in connecting the jargon of different professions is sincerely admirable with the inherent technology/hacker mindset, "I see this, can parse this, can translate this".

Tom shared his suggestions to the newcomers to the open-source ecosystem. He said "Be patient with yourself and others" recognizing the people behind a project were once fledgling like you. Furthermore, "Don't write clever" instead follow and understand a project's motives and guidelines remarking how important it is to comprehend a project's process before writing lines of code. Lastly, "be prepared to be told that you were wrong". Whether a pull request was incorrect in terms of format, syntax, label, or whatever, contributors should be prepared to be rejected. If the situation arises, then don't linger on the faults instead pivot and document the mistakes.

### Start of the group contribution

Starting this week, each group will begin making baby contributions to an open-source project that each group consented to work on. Appsmith\_, an open-source framework that lets users build their software for a team or individual using a simple drag and drop feature, will be the project that my group will contribute to. The group agreed that the project contains numerous beginner-friendly issues forecasting abundant opportunities for the group member to participate solidifying the decision to work on the project. Though the project's already giving hard time setting up the necessary environments, I look forward to viewing the works done once the semester is over.
