---
layout: post
title: "Week 5: Project Evaluation Practice"
---

### Evaluating Oh-My-Zsh project

-   Project Evaluation is a method of investigating a project's adequateness with eager contributors ready to participate. This week, the class took an in-depth dive into a project that each team is assigned to evaluate its suitability for one before beginning contribution. Oh-My-Zsh, a project given to my team, is a ZSH shell configuration framework rendering numerous productive plugins, which enables convenient workflow for heavy command-line users. I had Oh-My-Zsh installed since the first time using the command line, not only I don't exploit the full benefits the framework is capable of offering, but also haven't read general documentation of the project in its GitHub repository, checked the ambient of the community hub, and measured the liveliness of issues and pull requests disclosed in the project. Throughout the course in completing the evaluation activity, I was gifted to learn more about the functions in GitHub repository and Oh-My-Zsh.

<!--more-->

The main page interface of a GitHub repository can be intimidating when narrowing down the search to desired page/section. At the finish of the activity, I felt comfortable surfing a repository to check the activeness of a project and the quality of the community behind it by exploring the "Issues" and "Pull requests" tabs of a repository. From the two essential tabs to look at when considering an open- source project, it is effective to determine the responsiveness of project maintainers, duration between when an issue was first raised to its resolve, period in which suggestions are cased on daily basis along with the number of suggestions in the day, and the communication manner for discussing other's proposal. It is also important to check the matters that are "Closed".

As Oh-My-Zsh is a popular framework used widely among ZSH users, the open-source project harnessed by a number of contributors, specifically 2,024 of them, to hand out better services. With a huge pool of computer science mavens, the topics discussed among the community felt like conundrums, frustrating me to throw an idea whose ignorant in shell configuration. But with all that I've learned from evaluating the project, I can easily transition to another fitted project to contribute.
