---
layout: post
title: "Week 7: Engage with Open Source"
---

### The Cathedral and the Bazaar

_The Cathedral and the Bazaar_ is an essay by Eric Raymond contrasting two different software engineering methods, closed-source model and open-source model respectively to the title. Although the author intended to elaborate on the disparity of the two models, I deem the essay as a guidebook suggested for all software developers to consider following.

<!-- more -->

Raymond dished out his insights in the software development process gained from his active involvement and effort in the field of software engineering in several points, which emphasize critical values that any programmer should retain to maximize the efficiency during the period of developing and deploying software. Certainly, as a semi-amateur programmer, each point Raymond enumerated seen eye-to-eye with initial concepts and approach of programming I had and resonated to always memorize the significance of writing modular and reusable code, using all the available resources given, utilizing every features that modules integrated can provide, recognizing a workaround when faced with blockers, propelling to a new set up when the currently written code lacks vivid interpretation with naked-eyes without stressing about the struggle of rebuilding the code, adopting the feedbacks from the users, and inserting data structures and algorithms in the appropriate place carefully constructing a program to its optimal capacity.

There are some shortfalls too. Raymond, as the essay continues, seems to favor an open-source project for its nature of large sums of developers aiming in the same project such that glitches existing in a project are aptly detected. Personally, the reading could've been more meaningful and instructive had Raymond argued about the downside of closed-source software as he's laying out the benefits of open-source to better conceptualize and distinguish the two methods of software development so that the takeaways from the guru are more reliable since I believe that each has its advantages whether it's open-source or closed-source.

### Restriction on Open Source

The core foundation of open-source that defines a project as an open-source is staying unlocked and possessing unrestricted access to the project. Should a project denies entry of a person, a cohort, or society because of the danger of it being used with malicious intent by the requestee - perhaps, but with careful filtering procedure. Any object whether it's a kitchen utensil or computer software could inflict damage on other individuals or groups if the will is set to cause harm. However, an open-source project that doesn't have the sole authority who manage its characteristics should not block one or an organization from tapping into the projects because the project was left open seeking for outside intellects to chip in ideas and resolutions by the power of collective intelligence. Applying open-source in the own work must utterly be up to the user who is accountable for the aftermath of one's usage. Unless there's a robust handbook of whom should be aware or avoided to grant access controlled by strict regulations and legislation, once as open-source should stay as open-source.

### Open Source Project selection

Finding an open-source project to contribute to wasn't an easy task because every project either seemed to have enough eminent developers exchanging superior programming savvy or already fully developed such that there's only much a beginner can make effort in. Since I don't have experience in contributing to an open-source project nor a computer science prodigy, the first aspect considered when searching through an intriguing project to work on was the presence of any type of beginner-friendly label in the issue tracker of a project's repository. Once such attribute with a decent amount of both open and closed issues is confirmed, I moved on to check the main language used for the project, specifically JavaScript or supplementarily, Python, the two languages that I'm most eager to pursue further.

By diving into the vastness of the open-source ocean, all that I want is the taste of the workflow of open-source. The way to communicate with the community behind, grasping the app functionality by reading through the codebase, making pull requests, etc. - simply all the endeavors to break out of the comfort zone of writing code on my own for me and be intrepid in trying a novel. Nonetheless, as much as I'm excited there's going to be turbulences. Some projects contain numerous repositories that all of them combine to make up a project. This is troubling due to personal ignorant in navigating to the right repository where my inability can still show contribution. Furthermore, the fear of merge conflict is an obstacle to overcome.
