---
layout: post
title: "Week 3: Introduction to Git"
---

### Git activity

-   hello
<!--more-->

### Jim Hall's visit

-   This week, we had the honor to invite Jim Hall, the founder as well as project manager of FreeDOS open source software, to our class where he carried out a remarkable speech about the essence of Open Source Software and instructive answers during Q&A with the students. Jim started his lecture with the timeline of software, which the majority of students are insensible about because the topic isn't commonly taught in college courses. Once Jim brought about open source software, he reminded all of us
    in the class of the importance of license. Jim remarked about the ubiquitousness of early software being proprietary denying access to the source code and the comparison of OpenDOS and FreeDOS, which weren't considered open in his opinion due to instability of licenses that were used in the early days.

-   Jim is a strong advocate of Open source software, in which 27 years of his career is spent. Jim pointed out that Open source accelerates innovation when talking about the transition of software from closed to open loomed in the early 2000s. I value his thought because in a fast-changing world innovations are necessary to stay ahead of the competitors and prevent products from going obsolete. Another core characteristic of Open source that he mentioned was the diversity of contributors. Inclusiveness of Open source software so that anyone with interest can contribute to projects is the key to publishing open source. Intriguingly, to maximize participation in FreeDOS, which Jim is actively coordinating, he created a multi-lingual library such that developers around the globe can contribute to the project using their native language. The library idea he performed to globalize not only his work but also all the other Open source software was extremely fascinating.

-   Jim reinformed the significance of a hospitable community around Open source software; hence the need for a code of conduct for every open project. Although open source has maintainers who accommodate the project's general direction and implementation, Open source software is facilitated by the community with various personalities behind them. When a community of a project wards off newcomers from entering or manifests snub to other's contribution, the pool of diversity will shrink and individual contributors begin to work independently where exchange of sparking notions is stopped, such that the project is ill-fated from its growth.
