---
layout: post
title: "Week 13: Solid progresses"
---

### Milestone check

It has been about a month spent sailing a vast ocean of open-source projects, checking the open-source water's salinity before being too attached to the concept since the groups were formed in class. As the half-point is reached, each group took its turn and presented up-to-date progress contributed to a project that it was assigned.

<!--more-->

Each group achieved a lot. Unexpectedly, many groups got their pull requests merged to the main application, which I thought would be a rare occasion given the fact that participating in an open-source project is a new experience for the majority of the class. Speicetify team suggested a new dark theme for Spotify and was later accepted by the main project group and one of the Opia team inserted a new rule to the main application's code linter.

Teams cleverly found different ways they can contribute to a project. Learned from past lectures, coding is not the only way to contribute to open-source projects. Including but not limited to correcting a project's documentation, raising an issue about bugs and glitches found in release applications, or translations, in numerous ways developers can express their passion for a project. Similarly, one of the Oppia team constructively transitioned to a non-coding contribution after finding out that one of the team member's laptops isn't compatible to run the project's code.

Teams weren't hesitant to reach out to the members of a project. Instead, every team actively communicated their questions and blockers regarding resolving issues they tackle. One of the Blender groups had to contact the owner of a module to report a duplicate keystroke error by asking one of the project maintainers. The group soon filled their question page with other developers' conversations sharing speculations about the owner.

Teams have gained an insightful understanding of the project that they were assigned. Although most group members of each group weren't familiar with their project's functionality, teams seem to really know about their application. It was astonishing to hear groups pitching any errors that they spotted while spectating thorough their project because along with error description, teams also displayed their deep understanding of the working project.

Every team faced obstacles but managed to overcome them. Just as my team went through trouble setting up development environments for `appsmith`, other teams face the same difficulty during their progress. Nonetheless, all the teams found their solution by asking in the project's communication channel or beginning with a non-coding contribution first.

Listening to other groups' performances was bittersweet. Engagement, eagerness to learn new things, coding skills, and all the tremendous efforts that they put in motivated my desire for self-improvement, but at the same time, there was a feeling that other teams' milestone is prolific than us in terms of the number of contributions and their type. Hopefully, such a sense of inferiority could serve as fuel to drive my team's last-mile sprint and proactively search for a path to contribute further.

### Project progress

At the end of this week, my team successfully submitted a PR and requested to claim another issue to try, but this time, each member will grab one for himself. Next coming week will be a week to work on each of our issues while keeping our eyes on the PR comments from the reviewers.
